The first flow, material,
represents products and related services.
While this has traditionally been
an important focus of logisticians,
it is also an important element in supply chain management.
It's important to understand that product flow
is a two-way flow in today's environment.
This is due to the growth of reverse logistics systems
for returning products that are unacceptable to the buyer
because they are damaged, obsolete, or worn out.
There are numerous reasons for this growth
in the reverse system.
Additionally, networks for reverse systems usually
have to be designed differently than forward systems.
The location, size, and layout of facilities
are frequently different and the transportation carriers
need to be utilized differently.